DOCUMENT RESUME
ED 187 240 HE 012 709
AUTHOR Gross, Ron; And Others
TITLE Independent, Self-Directed Learners in American Life:
The Other 80 Percent of Learning.
INSTITUTION George Washington Univ., Washington, D.C. Inst. for
Educational Leadership.
PUB DATE 6 Jun 77
NOTE 46p.

AVAILABLE FROM

Institute for Educational Leadership, George
Washington University, Suite 310, 1001 Connecticut
Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20037 (S1.00)

EDRS PRICE 801 Plus Postage. PC Not Available from EDRS.

DESCRIPTORS

*Adult Learning: Discovery Learning: Educational
Philosophy: *Experiential Learning: *Individual
Activities: Interests: *Lifelong Learning:
Motivation: *Nonformal Education

ABSTRACT
A transcript of a dialogue on independent,
self-directed learning is presented. The three presenters, Ron Gross,
Tom Hebert, and Allen Tough, and audience members discuss learning,
schooling, discovery, motivation, public policy, and how all of these
affect values and the quality of life. Nonformal, nonaffiliated
learning--which takes place at home or in informal settings like
libraries, enthusiasts' clubs, and organized networks of learners--is
considered. Surveys of deliberate efforts by adults to gaini some very
definite knowledge and skill have found that 20 percent of adult
learning is planned by a professional who leads a class or group,
while 80 percent of adult learning is planned by the learner. Also
included in the 80 percent are self-help groups of peers with tha
same problems or interests. Ways to facilitate the entire range of
adult learning, including helping learners locate materials or
information sources, are suggested. The philosophy of a group called
"Writers in the Public Interest" is described. Suggestions on how to
support indepeudent self-directed learners and their "Invisible
University" are offered. Other topics that are addressed in the forum
include: tbe activities of people who are knowledgeable abouta
particular area, such as trains/transportation: the capacity of
libraries to meet the needs of independent learners: and academi:
credit/degrees versus noncredit/independent learning. (SW)


POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION CONVENING AUTHORITY

INDEPENDENT, SELF-DIRECTED LEARNERS IN AMERICAN LIFE:
THE OTHER 80% OF LEARNING
a presentation to the
June 6, 1977
PECA Monthly Dialogue on Lifelong Learning
by three self-directed learners
RON GROSS
TOM HEBERT
ALLEN TOUGH

Prepared as a service to participants in the "Monthly
Dialogue on Lifelong Learning," sponsored by the
Postsecondary Education Convening Authority. The
Dialogue is a monthly forum open to anyone interested
in lifelong learning and public policy. For more
information and a schedule of upcoming events, call
PECA at (202)833-2745.

PECA is supported by a grant from the Fund for the
Improvement of Postsecondary Education, Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare.




INTRODUCTION

On June 6, 1977, PECA brought its 1976-77season of the Monthly
Dialogue on Lifelong Learning to a grand finale. Three self-
directed, independent learners, Ron Gross, Tom Hebert and Allen
Tough, presented a sparkling colloquy on "Independent, Self-
Directed Learners in American Life: The Other 80% of Learning."
A little bit about our presenters:

- RON GROSS is author of the two Ford Foundation-sponsored
reports -- _Higher/Wider Education_ and _New Paths to Learning_ --
and the upcoming _The Lifelong Learner_ (Simon and Schuster).
He is also adjunct Professor of Social Thought at New York
University and Founder-Director ofWriters in the Public
Interest.

- TOM HEBERT is co-author of three books on lifelong learning --
_This Way Out_, _By Hand_ (Crafts), And _Getting Skilled_.

- ALLEN TOUGH is Associate Professor of Adult Education at the
Ontario Institute for Studies in Education where he authored
_Adults' Learning Projects_. He is currently directing a long-
term research project on independent learning.

What follows is a transcript of those proceedings. Those of you
who attended will be reminded of the dynamic interchange at that
session -- replete with props, signs, hand-outs, audience participation
and the Gross-Hebert-Tough tee-shirs, specially lettered
with "The Other 80% of Learning," "The Invisible University" and
"Amateur League of Scholars -- a good book and a lamp to read it
by."

To all its readers, this text provides refreshing, sometimes
startling insights on learning, schooling, discovery, motivation,
public policy and how all of these impact on our values and the
quality of our lives. You will find out more about non-formal,
nonaffiliated learning -- the 80% which takes place in the home
or informal settings like libraries, enthusiasts' clubs and
organized networks of learners.

If you would like additional copies of the Gross-Hebert-Tough
presentation they are available for $1.00 prepaid from

The Postsecondary Education Convening Authority
Institute for Educational Leadership
1001 Connecticut Avenue, N.W. Suite #310
Washington, D.C. 20037

Attention: Publications Coordinator


Our presenters would welcome any comments, questions or reactions.
They can be reached as follows:

Ron Gross
17 Myrtle Drive
Great Neck, NY 11021
(516) 487-0235

Tom Hebert
1801 - 16th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20009
(202) 232-7078

Allen Tough
Adult Learning Projects
Ontario Institue for Studies
  in Education
52 B1oor Street West
Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5S1V6


PROCEEDINGS

Marilyn Kressel is Associate Director of the Postsecondary Education
Convening Authority.

MS. KRESSEL: It is my pleasure at this time to introduce very
quickly and then I am going to turn over the program to them, our
presentors for our seminar, "Independent, Self-Directed Learners
in American Life-- The Other 80 Percent of Learning." To my far
right, Ron Gross, who is the Founder and Director of Writers in
the Public Interest and author of "Higher/Wider Education," and
"New Paths to Learning," both sponsored by the Ford Foundation, and
of a new book coming out soon from Simon and Schuster, The Lifelong
Learner.

Sitting next to him, Allen Tough, Associate Professor of Adult
Education, Ontario Institute for Studies in Education, who has auth-
ored _The Adults' Learning Projects_ and is directing a project in
independent learning. And to him I would like to extend special
thanks for his long journey down here from Toronto, Canada to be part
of this session.

And finally, there lingering in the background, Tom Hebert, who
has been a *Dialogue" regular, a free-lance writer, co-author of three
publications: _This Way Out_ (Alternative Education); _By Hand_ (Crafts);
and _Getting Skilled_ (Trade Schools). He is also Education consult-
ant to the National Center for Appropriate Technology.

I now turn over the dialogue to our three American independent
learners. Thank you.

MR. GROSS: Thank you, Marilyn. It is a delight to be here, but it
is a little bit warm. Would anyone mind if we took off our jackets?

MR. TOUGH: Actually, up in Canada we rarely wear ties. We are very
informal. Would you mind if we took off our ties?

MR. HEBERT: If we're going this far, I think I will take off my
shirt, too. (This is called the Clark Kent act.)

[Laughter from audience] (The men are seen to be wearing T-Shirts
with the following words emblazened thereon: Alan Tough in "The
Other 80% of learning," Ron Gross in "The Invisible University,"
Tom Hebert in "American League of Amateur Scholars - a good book and
a lamp to read it by.")

MR. TOUGH: I feel more comfortable.

MR. HEBERT: The three of us have awarded you all Ph.D.'s which you
find stamped on your name tags. We feel more comfortable talking to
Ph.D.s. I never got one. Dr. Gross, Dr. Tough. This is my big
moment because I never got my Master's Degree.

One thing we would like to do today is dedicate today's program
to a man that we didn't get down here in Washington. Thie program
is dedicated to Paul Goodman.

MR. TOUGH: I have always earned my living as a classroon teacher.
First I was a high school teacher. And more recently in graduate
school, where I teach people from the age of 22 to 52. So I am
very solidly grounded in classroom and institutional education. At
the same time, in my research, I have become interested in the total
range of adult learning. I said to myself, "Why don't we look at all
the kinds of things that adults are trying to learn, all the methods
they are using? Not just what they are doing in our classrooms and
in our institutions."

And what I am going to share with you this afternoon is the
picture that has emerged as I and others have gone and simply talked
to adults in all walks of life, asking them what they have been
learning in the last year, how they have gone about it, and how much time
they have been spending on it.

What emerges is a picture that is dramatically different from
any other picture of adult learning that has been in circulation.
And I think the picture has rather dramatic implications for the
services that we should be providing for adult learners.

First of all, I had to decide just exactly what I was going to
ask people to tell me about, the phenomenon I wanted them to talk
about. And the thing that interested me most was highly deliberate
efforts to learn something. So what I focused on were major, highly
deliberate efforts to gain some very definite knowledge and skill.

I was only interested if the person knew what he or she wanted
to learn and went ahead and did so in quite a deliberate way. I also
said that all these little bits of efforts to learn something had to
add up to a total of seven hours. Now, in fact, it was fairly rare
that we had to use that minimum cut-off because it turned out that
the average learning effort by an adult is closer to 100 hours. Average
learning efforts hover around 80, 90, 100, 110 hours. So these really
are major learning efforts. And we didn't have to use the seven hour
minimum particularly often.

What I have just described to you is number one in Figure 1.,
that is it describes the phenomenon, the kind of learning, that we
focused on. It is really a major learning effort.

Now, I won't run through number two in figure one. But that is
simply some of the populations that we studied up in Toronto, Canada
and then some of the other populations that have now been studies
all across the States and in several foreign countries, in West Africa,
Australia, New Zealand and Jamaica.


Figure 1.

__MAJOR LEARNING EFFORTS__

1. __A learning project__ is a highly deliberate effort to gain and
retain certain definite knowledge and skill. The series of
learning seesions (episodes in which the person's primary
intention was to learn) must add up to at least seven hours.

2. __Population surveyed__: adult high-school diploma students;
clerks; college administrators; extension agents; factory
workers; general populations in a geographical area (Tennessee,
Nebraska, US nationwide); library users; literacy class members;
managers; ministers; mothers; older adults; pharmacists; politicians;
professional men; salesmen (IBM); school teachers;
unemployed; union members; university professors; youth (ages 10 and 16).

Places: Canada (10 studies), Ghana, Jamaica, New Zealand, USA (14 studies).

3. __The middle or average person__:
conducts seven distinct learning projects in one year
spends an average of 100 hours per learning effort
spends a total of 700 hours per year
4 In whose hands is the day-to-day planning of what and how to
learn? Twenty percent of all learning projects are planned by
a professional (someone trained,' paid, or institutionally des-
ignated to facilitate the learning). The professional operates
in a group (10%), in a one-to-one situation (7%), or indirectly
through completely pre-programmed non-human resources (3%).
Eighty percent of all learning projects are planned by an "ama-
teur". This is usually the learner himself or herself (73%),
but occasionally is a friend (3%) or a democratic group of peers
(4%).
5. Most common motivation: some anticipated use or applicationof
the knowledge and'skill. Less common: cuilUsity or puzzlement,
or wanting to possess the knowledge for its own sake. Rare (1%
of all learning effOrts): credit.
6. Details, integration, and implications are provided in The
Adult's Learning Projects: A Fresh Approach to Theory WEE
t,ractice in Adult Learning by Allen Tough. /t is available
(for about $6.50 prepaid) from Publications Sales, Ontario
Institute for Studies in Education, 252 Bloor Street West,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5S 1V6.



